So with all that talking in theory, we all want to get started,
so what's in this course? In this course,
we're almost done with the introduction and we'll then move onto the basics of mongodb basic
operations and most importantly, the basic crud operations, crud stands for create, read, update and delete
which are the core operations
basically any application will have to do. If you're a newcomer to mongodb,
you should absolutely start there,
well you start here but then this is the first real content module with which you should start.
After that, we'll have a look at data schemas and relations,
how do you model your data,
how do you find the right balance between having that flexible document schema and still using a schema
in your app,
how do you relate different documents,
we'll have a look at that in this module.
Thereafter I'll dive a bit deeper into working with the shell,
some different things you can configure there and how you can for example run that mongod server as a
service on Mac and Linux. And we'll then have a look at the graphical user interface, Compass, we'll not really
work with that throughout the course
but I still want you to know it and to understand that you can use that to look into your data.
Now after that, we're back to the shell and we'll dive deeper into create operations,
that is where you can start if you have some basic understanding,
so if you're not a total newcomer but you know basically what mongodb does, you could skip the other
modules if you want and dive into that. And we'll not just have a deep dive on the sea of the crud,
we'll also have a deep dive at reading,
so filtering and querying data and updating and deleting data,
so a lot of deep dives there to show you all configuration options, all filters and all the different
ways of getting that data you need.
Now thereafter we'll have a look at indexes, a feature that allows you to speed up your queries,
I'll talk about the advantages and disadvantages and how to use them.
If you're an advanced user and you know all that crud stuff already, this might be the entry point you
want to use,
so you could skip forward to that if you're pretty confident that the rest will be boring to you. Now after
indexes, we'll work with geospatial data because mongodb is actually really great at storing
locations and at querying that so that you can do things like I am here which is the closest restaurant,
that is really easy to do with mongodb as you will learn in this module. Now
thereafter we'll have a look at the aggregation framework which is a more powerful way of retrieving
data from your database and you learn how you can use that and how you can build complex aggregation
pipelines with the help of mongodb.
It's then time to work into a special kind of data, into numeric data,
I will teach you how to work with different kinds of numbers and what's special about that
in mongodb. Well and with that out of the way and with these core features covered, I'll dive into
a crucial feature, security and authentication.
How do you secure your mongo database, what's to that and how can users authenticate against it and with
users,
I mean database users,
so for example your application or you as a real person using the shell. Thereafter, we'll have a look
at performance, fault tolerance and deployments,
so how can you improve the performance,
what are important factors and how do you in the end get your local mongodb environment into the
web, into the cloud so that you can really use it from anywhere and not just from your local machine
which is great for practicing and for working or for developing but not really for running this in
production obviously.
Thereafter, we'll have a look at a cool feature called transactions which was added with mongodb
4.0 and we will learn how to move from the shell, so from the knowledge you gained with all the shell
operations to the drivers and we will build an entire application there, a node react application and
you don't need to know either to get a lot out of that module to learn how you can use the driver,
the node driver in this case and use the knowledge you gained
in the course to quickly create an amazing application.
Thereafter, I will conclude this course by diving into mongodb stitch which is this other offering
mongodb has with the serverless functions, the triggers and so on,
you will learn how you can use that to build together with the mongodb database a complete application
where you focus entirely on your business logic and data and you don't have to worry about creating
rest
APIs,
configuring service or anything like that.
So this is what's inside the course,
I hope you like it and I'm super excited to dive into it with you.